# The-Evolution-of-Extraversion
In 1958, Ernest Tupes and Raymond Christal developed a psychological model to describe what they described as the ‘Big Five’ personality traits. Tupes and Christal recognized the relationship between verbal descriptors and personality traits—that is, certain words used to describe personality characteristics were often applied to people with similar personality data. These personality traits, which go by the acronym ‘OCEAN,’ are as follows: openness to experience, conscientiousness, extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism. This paper will focus on what we consider to be ‘positive’ personality traits: extraversion (outgoing/energetic vs solitary/reserved) and agreeableness (friendly/compassionate vs critical/rational) (Wikipedia). By applying the ideas of game theory to these personality aspects, we can better understand why certain individuals or populations as a whole tend to be more ‘positive’ than others. Furthermore, we will examine the foundations of personality: have ‘positive’ traits provided individuals with a level of fitness which results in heritability through biological mechanisms or have individuals calibrated psychological mechanisms in response to different cues? This paper will examine the relationship between extraversion and agreeableness, providing insight into the evolutionary advantages their correlation may provide. We will shine light on the evolutionary trade-offs of being extraverted and agreeable and, through several simulated games, demonstrate that the traits are subject to stabilizing selection, resulting in polymorphic societies. Furthermore, this polymorphism is based upon the frequency-dependent nature of personality ranges in different populations across the world due to the ‘rarity’ of certain traits relative to others. Finally, we will explain the possible mechanisms behind the heritability—or lack thereof—of personality.   
